Gender-based violence activists say they are relieved that justice has been served after the High Court sitting in Randburg found former ANC Youth League leader Patrick Wisani guilty of his girlfriend's murder. "We are relieved with the outcome and I think justice has been done for Nosipho, her family, the witnesses and to all the women who are subjected to this kind of violence," Maurice Smithers, who was part of a group of activists against women abuse who were in court, told News24. Wisani sjambokked his girlfriend, Nosipho Mandeleleni, 24, to death in their home in Yeoville in September last year. She died on the scene. While out on bail, Wisani allegedly threatened and assaulted two State witnesses and as a result his bail was revoked. He was the chairperson of an ANC Youth League branch in the inner Johannesburg area prior to his arrest. The court gallery on Monday morning was filled with activists who wore purple T-shirts calling for the end of the abuse of women. Smithers said it was not a "happy" occasion. "I wouldn't say that we are happy - we can't be happy that so many lives have been destroyed. Nosipho is dead and her mother and other people in the community have to deal with that." Smithers added that Wisani's guilty verdict was a "waste" of his life. "If you look at the way he was conducting himself in court, you can see that he is a bright and intelligent human being. He could have been such an asset to society," she said. Mandeleleni's mother, who was present during the judgment, refused to speak to the media. She said she would only comment after sentencing. Earlier, Judge Mohamed Ismail said he looked at the totality of the evidence presented during the trial before making his decision. "The court rejects the version of the accused and he is convicted of the three charges," Ismail said. Dressed in black jeans, a blue T-shirt with white stripes and a green jacket, Wisani took notes as the judgment was read out. After judgment was handed down, Wisani - who has been conducting his own legal defence - told the court that he would get legal representation for his sentencing. He also told the court that he preferred the sentencing date to be as soon as possible. 