Kylie Jenner is launching her first pop-up retail space for her make-up brand, Kylie Cosmetics. After launching at the end of 2015, Jenner's Lip Kits have sold out online every time she restocked her e-commerce store. Now she will be bringing that hype to the Westfield Topanga mall in Canoga Park, Los Angeles.

In January, following the success of her first Lip Kit releases, Jenner hinted that she may be expanding her Lip Kit offering and may be growing the brand to include other products, such as eye shadow and nail kits. At 19, the youngest of the Kardashian-Jenner family is making serious business strides as she establishes both her personal brand and company as a viable beauty empire.

The pop-up store is ready for the festive season, selling holiday-themed products including "sparkling creme eye shadows [called KyShadows], silver boxed gift sets and furry white stockings stuffed with products that can be pulled off an in-store tree like ornaments", the LA Times reports. It will open from 9 December and remain open until stock is sold out. With her Lip Kits selling out in minutes, it seems the pop-up store may not be open for too long. it was all just a dream 🤗 coming soon to the Topanga Westfield Mall. I grew up at this mall .. Crazy 😩 12.9.16 A photo posted by Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Nov 21, 2016 at 11:28am PST As Jenner said on the caption of her Instagram post about the store, it was all "just a dream" and when she first launched Kylie Lip Kits, the level of success of the brand was unexpected. Initially there were naysayers, with Jenner's company given an "F" rating from the Better Business Bureau (BBB) -- a business reviewing organisation. The BBB gave Kylie Cosmetics its lowest rating after it reportedly received 133 complaints bout the company. Jenner responded in a statement on her website, saying that she is "sick and tired of people coming" for her business and is happy to report that the BBB had changed their rating. Currently, Kylie Cosmetics has "no rating" on the BBB site.

The shop may also be selling Jenner's merchandise, Allure.com reports. In recent Instagram posts, Jenner has been tagging @thekylieshop, which features teasers of merchandise with slogans and her face on it. kyliejennershop.com A photo posted by Official Kylie Jenner Shop (@thekylieshop) on Nov 21, 2016 at 9:48am PST