We're going to come right out and say it: Wololo is the song of the year. The gqom track, performed by kwaito heavyweights Big Nuz's Mampintsha and Babes Wodumo (real name Bongekile Simelane) was released on 28 April and has been on South African charts since. She hit over two million views on YouTube in just three months and is fast approaching three million. None of the hype seems to be dying down anytime soon and the song is so great no one cares that the jury is still out on her actual singing talent. The tune came at a time when we were all fixated on hip-hop artists. Wololo was just what we needed to bring out our inner ratchetness -- and not the twerking type. Gqom has been making waves in South Africa for years now, specifically in Kwazulu Natal, but as it infiltrates Europe, it's becoming a global genre - one that we can claim as our own like we once did with Kwaito. Besides the fact that you can't walk down a street without hearing at least one person hum the tune or seeing someone voshoing in your favourite meme, here are some other reasons why this is the song of the year. 1. It's local AF. In recent years, South African sounds have come through solidly with bangers. Last year we had Shumaya by TradeMark, Durbn Nyts, and Zinhle Ngindi. In 2014, we had a tie between Caracara and Doc Shebeleza - both songs about South African legends. Babes's song is also firmly grounded in South Africa, using power Durban genre gqom to create the sound of 2016. 2. All great songs have a dance craze and Instagram is full of people trying those Babes dance moves. A video posted by EMEFAK (@emamoves) on Nov 14, 2016 at 8:44am PST  Nothing beats Khabonina's remixed dance moves though.  3. Everyone wants to be the Babes of something.  It can be a positive thing... After #ShaunAbrahams dropped charges the Rand strengthened. Gordhan is officially uBabes we Rand pic.twitter.com/mYM9PokUws Or a not so positive thing... 4. The song was so great, someone tried to have it removed from YouTube because he released a song named Wololo first. Nevermind that barely anyone knows the artist or his song. Wyzie is a Kenyan artist signed under Mausay Records, a small record label operating in South Africa, Kenya and Tanzania. Even though Mausay Records claims Wyzie's track was the first Wololo, if this was a thing, Rose Muhando from Tanzania would have dibs. Her song was on YouTube back in 2013 and Wyzie only released his two years later. 5. Babes has been named a "national key point". Why? Mampintsha has allegedly proposed to her and the people are just not having it. How can he want to keep our national treasure to himself? No man. Seriously though, to come out of "nowhere" and become as important as Nkandla has got to be an accomplishment. But why everyone's talking about her as if she has no agency is anybody's guess. And that's why Wololo is the song of the year. But there is a close contender we'll concede to... 