Kanye West was hospitalised for exhaustion in Los Angeles on Monday for and is being held for psychiatric evaluation for his own safety. West was allegedly experiencing temporary psychosis as a result of severe sleep deprivation. It's since been reported that the 39-year-old rapper, who has previously spoken about his battle with depression, is allegedly being treated for a mental illness. Given his tendency for public outbursts and Twitter rants, Kanye has accumulated both fans and haters alike - some of whom have taken to Twitter to make jokes about West's condition. #KanyeWest votes for Trump, then checks into hospital for "psychiatric evaluation" 😂 #KanyeWest rushed to hospital for a 'Psychiatric Emergency' - sounds like another stellar Candidate for the US Presidency is 2020 I have a psychiatric emergency every day... it's called being an adult and that's why there's Xanax #KanyeWest #anxiety But Lady Gaga has come to West's defense, tweeting that mental illness is not to be joked and calling for more compassion for Kanye. It's not funny to joke about anyone's possible or not possible mental illness, this is a sensitive time for many. Let's be kind & loving. ❤️ While I don't agree with everything he does I hope the public shows compassion and ❤️for @kanyewest and each other. One love. One Race. . @kanyewest i support & love u brother, I see in you bravery & courage to stop this tour & take care of YOU. You are a GREAT artist 🎨💋 South African actress Nomzamo Mbatha, joined other celebrities tweeting in support of the rapper, and pointed out that West has not been the same since his mother passed away in 2007. Making fun of people who suffer from mental illness is quite sad.
It doesn't only come from a place of ignorance, but also bullying. He's never been the same since her passing. That's what death does to you. You never stop the grieving. https://t.co/lnK72zEsIE After a series of public rants last week, West cancelled the remainder of his Saint Pablo tour before being hospitalised this week. According to reports, Kim Kardashian is at her husband's side as the family prepared to spend Thanksgiving in hospital.