The ladies of Twitter never fail to brighten our days with their brilliant ― but succinct ― wisdom. Each week, HuffPost Women rounds up hilarious 140-character musings. For this week’s great tweets from women, scroll through the list below. Then visit our Funniest Tweets From Women page for our past collections. I threw old quinoa under my feeder and now the squirrels are walking around in Uggs and requesting coconut water. I'm in such a state of despair that I understand French movies. One week ago was the day before the election. Now I know how astronauts feel after traveling for 50 years and returning 10 minutes older. Any superheroes out there? 'Cause now would be a good time to make yourself known. Also, I have some extra spandex unitards if you need 'em. Good news: in the multiverse theory, there are many realities where Trump isn't President. Bad news: You live in this one. 2016: The year the music really died. Steve Bannon looks like the actor in every Lifetime movie, playing a belligerent, alcoholic uncle who shows up & ruins everything. Two bucks that the White House pet is gonna be a largish snake who wandered in the back door AKA a metaphor MADDOW: we are joined by Russian journalist Masha Gessen. Masha, is it true that we are the same person in alternate storylines? pic.twitter.com/nP2yimnVGv Some things I wouldn't trust trump with: controlling a thermostat, ordering appetizers for the table, anyone's daughter, the keys, president I'm still waiting for Hillary to tweet "I didn't like yo ass either" I will never get why some guys feel more awkward buying tampons. When WE buy them, someone knows our vaginas are bleeding. There's a lot on our plates right now, but someone should probably check in on that whole feral clown situation. cleaning my room = taking 15 min breaks and then winding up lying on my bed wearing a xmas dress from 3 years ago while watching netflix weird that any breakfast calories u consume at the airport/train station while traveling super-early don't count. science is amazing my least favorite conversations lately have all gone like this:ME: Donald Trump is a Xenophobe and a misogynist.WHITE GUY: How so? The only thing I feel like flirting with is misandry. As a white girl who has six frozen pizzas at home, let me tell you why I gave your banh mì 3.5 stars on yelp After a stressful day of holiday shopping, I like to soak away my cares in a relaxing bath.Mall Security: Ma'am, get out of the fountain. The Samsung Note 7 created many a hot pockets. Share this slide: