Hip-hop and rap artist Yasiin Bey (FKA Mos Def) has been declared an undesirable by the South African Department of Home Affairs and will leave South Africa Tuesday evening. Bey was arrested in January 2016 in Cape Town after trying to leave South Africa using a World Government of World Citizens passport that is not recognised by South African authorities. He reportedly entered the country with a US passport and a visitor's visa that was valid until February 2016. It is reported that his family's visa's had expired in 2014 and Bey was accused of illegally helping them to stay in the country. At the time, he appeared in the Bellville Magistrate's Court, charged with contravening the Immigration Act. According to a statement issued by the Department of Home Affairs, "a foreigner may only depart from the Republic of South Africa (RSA) if he/she is in possession of a valid passport". Shortly after his run-in with the law, Bey released "No More Parties in SA" -- a diss track about South Africa that was posted on Kanye West's website. He broke the law 10 months ago, and it's about time for him to face the consequences of his actions. Bey has apologised to the Department of Home Affairs, and according to a statement issued by the department, "acknowledges and accepts that a world passport is not a valid passport in terms of the Immigration Act". According to the Director general of the Department of Home Affairs, Mkuseli Apleni, Bey "will not qualify for a port of entry visa or admission to the republic" . For his conduct #MosDef will be declared an undesirable by #DHA DG-he will not qualify for a port of entry visa or admission to the republic With confirmation of his departure from the country, the Department of Home Affairs will withdraw the charges against Bey on Friday 25 November 2016. Bey will be able to apply for a waiver of his undesirable status. #MosDef may apply for a waiver, for good cause, in terms of Section 2 of the Immigration Act of 2002 Right on cue, South African Twitter jumped on the announcement with memes and quips about the rapper. Mos Def: I am sorry:
Dept of home affairs: That's nice, but you still gotta leave. Timing of #HomeAffairs 👌 sendin #mosdef home when Trump is pres elect it's a punishment undesirable 😂😂😂  Me : we must apply the law
Other me: but Mos Def is so dope though pic.twitter.com/wRLdt8Ip11 