Model Chrissy Teigen is known for tweeting her mind - whether it's about what she's cooking for dinner or her feelings about Donald Trump, and she's had to field a host of trolls as a result. But Teigen takes it in her stride, responding to trolls as they pop up in her mentions and liberally making use of the Block and Delete buttons. In October the model, who is married to John Legend, set her Twitter account to private saying she was "not strong enough" for any more online abuse.

But last night she made her account public again as she got ready for the American Music Awards (AMAs), where she introduced John Legend's live performance of "Love Me Now".  True to form, Teigen's Twitter account delivered some gems from before and during the event. These were some of our favourites.  1. There was a #MannequinChallenge that featured Teigen, John Legend and her styling team as they got ready for the award show. She tweeted a few failed attempts before the final success that featured her posed on the floor, laughing as her stylist tries to get her shoes on to her feet. We did it but we are old and don't know how to add music and I had to just laughter-pose and also had to slow motion it @MonicaRoseStyle pic.twitter.com/Rr1ioOAg3O  2. Teigen gave fans all the tongue-in-cheek they've come to expect from her, and had missed these many months. I will be presenting John tonight. A live, unedited 90 seconds. I have 8 hours to figure out if I should give no fucks or all the fucks.  3. Her dress was one of the most talked about on the red carpet, featuring a slit that ran all the way up to her armpit and revealed that she probably wasn't wearing any underwear either. I love it lol https://t.co/O63e0OXXr8  4. Teigen was candid about the preparation that went into being able to confidently rock that gown. I shaved above the knee today so yes it is a big day today. #AMAs It took an hour https://t.co/5PmoIm9DkN  5. But perhaps the best moment came when Teigen introduced her husband's performance saying "his songs are bigger than either of us and on the heels of what's been a really interesting f**ked up election for all of us, I think we could all use a little love tonight." This elicited complaints about her swearing on primetime TV, even though the network, ABC, was quick to bleep her profanity out. She had the last laugh, though. 😂