A section of the ANC's caucus in Parliament is allegedly planning to embarrass, stymie and oppose President Jacob Zuma at every turn. "Caucus doesn't have any executive powers in the larger organisation, but we can have significant impact," a senior MP told The Huffington Post. Zuma is under increasing pressure within the organization after a year which has seen his influence and power diminish. MP's who are agitating for a change in leadership are now planning a three-pronged strategy, according to sources in caucus. This includes: It's clear Zuma is worried by the changing tide in the caucus – he's attended the weekly meeting on Thursday mornings in the Old Assembly for two weeks in a row. He was there two weeks ago, before the vote of no-confidence, and again last week. It is unclear what he said to MP's last Thursday, although it was understood to be "amiable". This follows angry calls from Jackson Mthembu, chief whip, that the party's leadership should resign because "it has failed". According to at least one MP who attended caucus last Thursday there was no sign of enmity between Mthembu and Zuma. Moloto Mothapo, caucus spokesperson, could not be reached for comment. Calls for Zuma's resignation have been heard from various quarters within the governing party, including from ANC veterans, who are meeting the party's National Working Committee (NWC) on Monday. This follows the release of the report into so-called state capture by Thuli Madonsela, the former public protector, disastrous results in the August municipal elections, the judgment by the Constitutional Court in March that Zuma violated his oath of office and the firing of the Minister of Finance Nhlanhla Nene in December last year. According to sources in the caucus there is huge anger among a large component of MP's toward Zuma, although MP's are by no means united. "The split is around 50/50, but Jackson coming out as forcefully as he did shows he has enough support to do so without being reprimanded. And the fact that nothing has happened afterwards, that Luthuli House hasn't called him in, is very significant." Meanwhile it seems that party elders, who are meeting the NWC on Monday, don't hold out much hope that the meeting will lead to significant change. WhatsApp messages seen by The Huffington Post between senior ANC members, including former members of Cabinet, chairs of state owned enterprises and private businessmen, indicate that that they have lost confidence in the current top leadership of the party. "I remain convinced meeting them, in whatever format, is simply going through the motions and, in fact, according them respect and legitimacy they no longer deserve. We must put national interest above the current leadership," one message reads. The reply says: "I think few people are under the illusion that there is much to be gained from the meeting with the NWC. It is however a necessary step . . . whatever action we take following a meeting in which they treat us badly and refuse to deal with the issues, will be justified."