South Africa needs leaders who are honest, have integrity and are of the same caliber as Nelson Mandela. That was deputy president Cyril Ramphosa's message during the 3rd anniversary memorial for Nelson Mandela held in Houghton on Monday night. He said the country was at a point where it has to turn to Mandela for inspiration, guidance, lessons in leadership as Madiba embodied so much of what was required of a leader. "Although he was one of the most famous figures of the 20th century, he was humble, almost humble to a fault. Never arrogant and devoid of any sense of entitlement. He listened to those he disagreed with. The more he disagreed with someone, the more intently he listened to them," Ramaphosa said. He described Mandela as a unifier and never a divider. Ramaphosa said Madiba knew that in order to lead the country he needed not only to unify the ANC but he needed to unify the nation as a whole. He said Mandela had to bring along everyone, even those who had sworn to destroy him and his movement. "That is how Madiba approached the task at hand. Now more than ever we need leaders of his quality and integrity. Leaders who are committed to serving only the interests of our people. We need to ask ourselves uncomfortable questions such as does South Africa today have such leaders? Does our movement have such leaders? Are we living up to the examples that Madiba, Oliver Tambo, Walter Sisulu and Albert Luthuli set? Most importantly, are we living up to the expectations of our people? For unless we have leaders who are united, credible, honest, listen, inspirational, we will not be able to unite not only our movement but our nation as well," he said. Ramaphosa called on party members to renew the promise of a better life for all and reaffirm the shared commitment to the defining values that are described in the Constitution. He said although they have held fast to their goal of a better life for all, there was a possibility that with the passage of time their attention would be divided and efforts misdirected. He spoke of the need to renew the bond of responsibility as we all as accountability between the people and those who elected them into government or key positions. "This is a moment for unity, a moment for renewal. A moment where we need to raise our gaze at the future that is better than yesterday and even better than today. It is a moment where we need to take action for unless we want history to judge us unfavorably, we must act to build a united South Africa with a clear vision and firm plan for the future. We do want a society where leaders regard themselves as servant leaders rather than leaders who will shout follow my lead. We call on South Africans to continue Madiba's long walk," he said.