"Professor Ajulu is a renowned internationalist and academic, he has contributed immensely to not only academia but also to the struggle for liberation in his own native Kenya and South Africa. His passing is a great loss to his family, South Africa and indeed the continent," Zuma said in a statement on Wednesday. "On behalf of government and all South Africans, we wish to extend our heartfelt condolences to Minister Sisulu as well as Ajulu and Sisulu families. Our prayers and thoughts are with them during this difficult period. May his soul rest in peace." Sisulu is the daughter of struggle stalwarts Walter and Albertina Sisulu. It is with a profound sadness that the Ajulu and Sisulu families announce the untimely passing of our beloved uncle x father Prof Rok Ajulu pic.twitter.com/J188OXEimM  Kenyan-born Prof Rok Ajulu was an ardent anti-Apartheid activist x Pan-Africanist. He led African student movement against Apartheid at Roma pic.twitter.com/8WTZfcaLYl  Well-renowned for his 🔪 mind x keen insights, Prof Ajulu lectured in Politics x IR, Roma (University of Lesotho), Leeds (UK), UCKAR x Wits pic.twitter.com/ATLUmASxBr  As a student he was expelled from University of Nairobi for participating in the 1974 student protests against the then govt pic.twitter.com/KY5uLjNxEY  He joined the rapidly growing east African socialist student movement x went to study in Bulgaria where he became a fervent internationalist  Prof Ajulu followed in footsteps of his father, Stephen Odero Ajulu, a political activist with Odinga Odinga's Kenya People's Union.  When his father passed on, Professor Ajulu became an adviser to Odinga.

Prof Ajulu also wrote extensively on political economy of Africa  Prof Ajulu is remembered for his compassion, outspokenness, ❤️of knowledge, quick wit. He's survived by wife Lindiwe Sisulu, 5 kids, 5 gkids pic.twitter.com/rlTpTMCEcE  Prof Ajulu was struck down on Boxing Day by pancreatic cancer. He'll be laid to rest in his ancestral home on shores of Lake Victoria, Kenya pic.twitter.com/bDRtDC5CiG  RIP Prof Rok Ajulu pic.twitter.com/zfdqNWK86R  According to a Kenyan Daily Nation story back in 2009, Ajulu was one of the academics who fled the country at the height of the Daniel Arap Moi repression targeting independent thinkers and perceived dissidents in the early 1980s. He told the paper at the time that he was not surprised that his wife had then been appointed as defence minister because she "was a fairly senior minister already". During the interview, he revealed that while visiting his home country he preferred to stay "in his rural home in Bondo because it is cheaper". He was a man who reportedly never forgot "his Kenyan roots". The couple met in exile and reportedly married in 1996. News24