It turns out Nokuthula didn't poison Mxolisi, she claims she gave him a harmless tranquilizer. Still! Such violation! Anyhoo, Mxolisi must have thought he was really dying, he even confessed to murdering his brother. At Nokuthula's suggestion, he wrote his biological mother a letter confessing that he killed his brother and his other mother helped him (MaXulu). His problems are clearly far from over as Nokuthula claims that she has the letter. Talk about major problems as the letter implicates Mxolisi and MaXulu. Manzuza will be crushed when she finds out about the letter as she doesn't know what happened to her son... He just disappeared! His body is buried at the panel beater shop which is owned by the Xulus. Nokuthula is a sadistic psycho, turns out she was once arrested for poisoning a man, but there was no proof so she was released. I guess it's her modus operandi to poison men. When Mxolisi's family heard about this they were really worried about his wellbeing. So Nokuthula dumped Mxolisi at the beach and called his sister and told her where to find him then she disappeared. She later called Mxolisi telling him that she is in Australia and that she has the letter and will use it when the time is right. This is going to carry on as she claims she wants to teach Mxolisi a lesson for toying with her heart. She disregards the fact that she is married! The pastor is a serial player!!! Like, who disappears on his bride-to-be on Lobola day?! Isn't that a sign that something is seriously wrong with the union? I mean Smangele should have known this was a red flag. He disappeared until the next morning, guess who he was with? Sibahle! Sibahle wants Ayanda back and it does seem like Ayanda wants the same but he wants to be with his fiancé who is faking a pregnancy. Ayanda asked Smangele when is she going to start showing and she said that it differs from women to women. This is not going to end well. Ayanda's two mothers ganged up on him asking him where was he. Serves him right, I mean who leaves his future in-laws future bride and run to his ex? Next week we will have to see if Nokuthula resurfaces and how is Ayanda going to carry on with his ex and future wife.