"Don't go around saying the world owes you a living. The world owes you nothing. It was here first." - Mark Twain I wrote this post from a five-star library (if library rating exists), surrounded by a diverse group of international students from across the globe. This is nowhere near South Africa, my home and definitely not in the same job I was in a year ago. I am breathing in American oxygen at the College of DuPage where I am a student. Before the scholarship, I would force myself out of bed every single morning, seven days a week and 28 days of every single month for a salary that barely covered my living costs. When I would finally build my strength to get up, I would take a bath, put my retail store uniform on, wear a little makeup to add "personality" to my dull outfit. This is then followed by a few morsels as breakfast and out the door, I would go to my shift at a retail food store. At this place, I would spend seven to eight hours greeting customers with a clown-like smile. In exchange for this, tips from lustful male customers, who for some reason felt a conversation with a cashier is incomplete without a greasy receipt with a "call me" roughly scrambled on it. Despite my monotonous routine, I knew when I walked into that retail store every morning that life had better plans for me and all I had to do was take action. Inspired by the retail store cocktails of odours on my blue and black uniform that conspired with the residue of a variety of fast-food cooking oils on my cheap wig, I left the job and took heed of Mark Twain's words by applying for the Community College State Department Program. Every potential participant is evaluated by the Fulbright commission like any Fulbright scholar, the eligibility to be a principal candidate is determined by their ability to live in a diverse environment with a variety of people of foreign backgrounds to them. A rigorous process that involves tests, interviews and screenings for an entire seven months. During this period every participant is in the dark on what their future holds, whether or not they have "made it" to study abroad, an emotionally intense and draining process that had most of us experiencing anxiety. The final decision on the principle candidates is also influenced by the participants' academic records and actual interests shown in their potential field of study. The program provides us with a non-degree, one-year academic program at a U.S. community college designed to build our technical skills in applied fields, enhance our leadership capabilities, and strengthen our English language proficiency. I have been here for almost four months and the amount of growth I have experienced is tremendous despite the obstacles I have had to overcome, for instance my routine hardly changed, I still had my mental illness. However the American oxygen opened an airway of opportunities. I got offered the role of News Editor of the college newspaper, the Courier Newspaper and I will be published in one of the student publications. The cherry on top is for the first time in my life, I have someone believe in me, so much he has accepted me as a mentee my award winning Professor, Sandy Fries. When the United States' state department awarded me with a one-year scholarship to study abroad my narrative changed. I had no idea I would eventually come face to face with the monsters lurking under my bed, I had no idea until I was again in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) surrounded by faces which each came in double. Difference is, it was not my father's gentle voice reviving me back to earth, not my sobbing best-friend trying to shake me back to life, but three white women yelling "Mo are you okay". In that moment I recall closing my eyes and not opening them again for the next three days, I had overdosed on my sleeping medication intentionally and I cannot explain why. I attempted suicide, I wanted to die with every fibre in my being, and I just did not know how I got to do it. I was in a fancy apartment that was paid for by the United States State Department, with always running water and electricity. Getting free quality education at one of the best Colleges in America, with a monthly stipend for food, entertainment and utilities. Yet I went ahead and did what I did. That is the reality of mental illnesses. We cut ourselves, self-medicate with over the counter stimulants and suppressors for depression and anxiety. The unfortunate ones start using a cocktail of illegal drugs because they cannot stand the monsters in their head. With me and many others when that chemical imbalance strikes it takes one deep cut or an overdose of sleeping medication and just like that it is all over. That is the monster that is mental illness.