Kristmas came early, because it looks like Kim Kardashian just gifted us with two presents: her (kind of) return to Instagram and Kimoji news. (Oh, and if you thought the reality star would be back on the photo-sharing app with a more conservative image, you were wrong.) On Tuesday, a Kimoji Instagram account appeared online. It was updated with a video (posted three times) of a woman in black underwear, which we're assuming is Kim, twerking in front of a holiday-appropriate sparkly background. DECEMBER 16 A video posted by KIMOJI (@kimoji) on Dec 12, 2016 at 9:37pm PST A few hours later, the account was updated with yet another super sexy shot, again posted three times, featuring two scantily clad women. We're going to go ahead and say that Kim's chest and perhaps her sister Kylie Jenner's behind are the stars of the photo, because we all know how much Kylie loves her high-cut, sporty underwear. DECEMBER 16 A photo posted by KIMOJI (@kimoji) on Dec 13, 2016 at 8:51pm PST On Wednesday, a third video was uploaded (yes, three times), again featuring a woman (Kim?) twerking. DECEMBER 16 A video posted by KIMOJI (@kimoji) on Dec 14, 2016 at 6:23pm PST Each post was captioned with "DECEMBER 16," leading us to believe that's when we'll get new Kimojis and/or new Kimoji merchandise. Now, of course, we aren't certain that's actually Kim (or Kylie) in the videos or photos, but we do know the account is verified. In that sense, we think it's pretty safe to say the posts are at least coming from someone on Kim's team. (We've reached out to Kim's rep to confirm who's in the clips.) Most commenters on Instagram were excited about Kim's return ― she's been mostly absent on social media since being robbed at gunpoint in Paris in October ― but some, including blogger Perez Hilton, had higher hopes. "I was expecting so much more form your return to social media," Hilton wrote, garnering some pretty nasty remarks from Kim's fans. At the end of the day, though, Kim can, and will, do whatever she wants on social media, regardless of what anyone thinks. She's proven that over and over, one naked selfie at a time.