People around the world have been horrified at events in Syria's second city Aleppo as pro-government forces look set to take back full control of the city. The UN has described a "complete meltdown of humanity" in the city with pro-Assad forces reportedly entering homes and killing dozens of civilians - including women and children. The UN's human rights office said it had reliable evidence that 82 civilians had shot dead after forces entered their homes. Thousands of people are reportedly trapped in the the last remaining rebel-held neighbourhoods, many of whom have been posting heartfelt goodbye messages and distress calls on social media. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon earlier voiced concerns about "reports of atrocities against a large number of civilians". He has urged all sides - particularly Syria's government and its allies - to protect civilians. For people in the UK, it is difficult to know where to begin to try to help people trapped affected by the ongoing crisis. We've given a run-down of some of the organisations and charities which you can donate to help provide displaced people with clothing, medicine, food, shelter, and education. The Red Cross, along with the Red Crescent, is delivering essential food and medicine to people in desperate need. They are already supporting 1,000 families forced to flee their homes. This includes providing essential food, shelter, water and medical care. Teams are providing medical care and ambulances to transport emergency cases to specialised facilities. DONATE HERE The Syria Civil Defence, also known as the White Helmets due to their distinctive hard hats, is a volunteer civil defence non-governmental organisation which works to rescue people from the rubble of destroyed buildings. Donations to their "hero fund" are used to pay for medical care for injured White Helmets, to help them get back on their feet, as well as supporting families of volunteers killed in action. DONATE HERE Very few doctors remain in Aleppo and, despite enjoying a protected status under international law, many hospitals and other medical facilities have been destroyed. MSF supports eight hospitals in the city of Aleppo. It runs six medical facilities across northern Syria and supports more than 150 health centres and hospitals across the country, many of them in besieged areas. MSF is no longer able to get into the city but continues to try to help the facilities it supports. DONATE HERE This non-profit organisation help address the basic needs of displaced people, such as medical care, shelter, food and water, and, once these are provided, then goes on to help rebuild lives through empowerment grants for those seeking work opportunities and trying to get their children back into education. Just a few miles outside Aleppo, they are already feeding more than 20,000 people and providing shelter and warmth for those without homes. DONATE HERE This charity started out providing medical aid to the people of Syria but has since expanded into food, shelter and education. Their medical expertise has proved particularly useful in starting a mental health centre, to help treat the deeply traumatising consequences of living in a war zone, as well as a project providing prosthetic limbs to those who have been badly injured. DONATE HERE This charity takes emergency aid directly to those living under threat and trying to survive in extreme conditions. They provide food, clothing, water and sanitation, as well as medical aid. We also work as implementation partners on behalf of other aid agencies and charities. DONATE HERE Karam Foundation is a non-profit organisation which runs sustainable development projects and distributes aid. They are currently running an emergency aid programme for the children of Syria, providing emergency relief for schools inside Syria for youngsters who remain in the country, as well as supporting refugee children who leave. You can also buy soaps from their Scents of Syria project, handmade by women from Damascus, to help them support their families. DONATE HERE SAMS provides medical treatment on the ground in southern Syria as well as for refugees in Turkey, Lebanon, and Jordan, as well as providing medical training. They have already treated more than 2.6 million patients and supported more than 1,700 health workers. DONATE HERE