The Huffington Post South Africa on Monday announced the appointment of Ferial Haffajee as its editor-at-large, joining an already stellar team. Ferial Haffajee was previously editor-in-chief of the Mail & Guardian and later of City Press. Newsrooms that she has led have produced groundbreaking investigations and won many major awards. Ferial also worked in broadcasting (both radio and television) and at the Financial Mail. In 2014, she received an International Press Freedom award from the Committee for the Protection of Journalists. The award is given to journalists whose work expands media freedom. She has also received Naspers' Phil Weber award for exceptional service, among others. Haffajee was named a Young Global Leader by the World Economic Forum and is a global moderator with the Africa Leadership Initiative and the Aspen Global Leadership Network. She has held various leadership positions including with the South African National Editors Forum and the World Editors Forum. "I am very excited to work with the dynamic young team editor-in-chief Verashni Pillay has assembled at Huffington Post South Africa. It is an honour to be named editor-at-large." Charlene Beukes, general manager of The Huffington Post South Africa, says it is exciting for HuffPost SA to have an editor of this calibre on the team. "Ferial is an extraordinary editor with an intuitive understanding of HuffPost's DNA and brand identity. Her willingness to fully embrace and support our mission in South Africa is a powerful asset to our newsroom. She will work with Verashni on setting the editorial agenda and raising the profile of the HuffPost South Africa brand. "We're thrilled to have a singular talent like Ferial join this fast growing team," said Nicholas Sabloff, executive editor for international at the Huffington Post. "We can think of no one better to help lead our mission of producing high-impact journalism and starting important conversations in South Africa." Verashni Pillay said she was delighted that Haffajee would be joining the team. "Ferial's ability to always have her finger on the country's collective pulse is unmatched. She immediately understands the topics gripping South Africans and has the imagination to deliver accessible and important journalism to these themes. This, coupled with her experience, makes her an incredibly valuable addition to the team." Haffajee has already started blogging for the platform, added Pillay. "She will work with us on forward planning, and continue writing for HuffPost SA."