There's just no harmony in Fifth Harmony. On Monday, American girl band Fifth Harmony announced on Twitter that band member Camila Cabello was leaving the group, after a year of rumours of a split. Since then the followers have been taking sides, supporting Cabello or the rest of the group, or the girls against their management. Monday's announcement came almost a year after the first rumours of a breakup started circulating among fans following Cabello's first solo project with Shawn Mendes on his "I know what you did last summer" track. "After 4 and a half years together, we have been informed via her representatives that Camila has decided to leave Fifth Harmony" the group said in their initial statement. In what seemed to be an indication of just how strained relations were between Camila and the rest of the group, Camila apparently did not inform them of her departure but left the job of breaking the news to her team. pic.twitter.com/YlWylsw5uE  Cabello responded with her own statement saying she was "shocked to read the statement the fifth harmony account posted" without her knowledge. In her response she said that this was not how she intended to leave the group and that the happiness of each was their own responsibility. She intends to focus on her own music in the new year and give her fans a "chunk of her heart" as she does so. pic.twitter.com/e35U3tcTQ8  But the band was not going to leave it at that and hit back at Cabello with an even longer statement to fans. In this second statement, the remaining members of the group express how hurt they were by Cabello's departure, which left them and their fans confused and looking for answers. According to the statement signed by Ally Brook, Normani Kordei, Dinah Jane and Lauren Jauregui, the band is done with the "we said, she said" exchange on social media and saddened by how Cabello and her team handled the situation. pic.twitter.com/SOrXxQnXr9  The breakup came as a surprise to many Fifth Harmony fans (or "Harmonizers"), after they had been assured that none of the band members would be leaving. However, according to Billboard, the announcement came after Cabello's contract with the group ended on 18 December and offered her "an exit". While some fans called for answers, others were just resigned to the change. I'm now being told it will hopefully be h4rmony which I kind of love @FifthHarmony 