COMMENT We're all chuffed with Vincent Smith and the members of his parliamentary ad hoc committee keelhauling the board of the South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) on live television — but what now? Bongani Ngqulunga, President Jacob Zuma's spokesperson, told Talk Radio 702 "the president is aware" of the urgency of the situation with no board in place. This after the barnacle-like Professor Mbulaheni Maguvhe became the last board member to resign last week. Zuma will however only appoint an interim board after Smith and his colleagues reports to parliament in February. In case you missed it | Zuma to wait for MPs' inquiry report before deciding on SABC board https://t.co/1yiwb8hIpk pic.twitter.com/HA62MVx5D5  If Zuma, as Ngqulunga professes, is aware of the "urgency" of the matter, he would surely "urgently" spring into action to resolve the situation. The facts are: Dear SABC stop reminding me to pay stuff thats been paid for months. Focus ur attention n budget on getting ur fvkn house in order #annoyed In the meantime viewership will decline (the latest viewing figures show a decline in viewership for all news bulletins, including a sharp drop for the English news bulletin), finances will deteriorate further and questions about supply chain management will remain. Throw into the mix the political dynamic — Zuma hitting out at critics, the race for the ANC leadership hotting up — and the SABC and its many hard-working journalists are up against it. [TOP READ] President concerned about vacuum at SABC. Read more here >> https://t.co/wBU7SD88xV pic.twitter.com/afTdIB7NdQ This could of course be resolved much quicker. Zuma, as head of state and leader of the governing party, can request both the speaker of parliament and the chief whip of the majority party to convene the communications committee and ensure that an interim board is in place by New Year's Day. It would be good for the SABC, good for effective government and good for the public. It not easy, but it's eminently possible. But only if the president understands the "urgency" of the matter.