Whether you knew it or not, 2016 has been a big year for film. Movies were bigger, darker and funnier with everything from Disney's Finding Dory to Warner Bros' Suicide Squad gracing screens and breaking box office records around the world. And it isn't stopping there. 2017 is set to be another huge year for cinemas with blockbusters and cult hits set to be the favourites for the coming year. Check out some of the flicks you'll definitely be hearing about in the new year, below. In the sixth and final installment of the Resident Evil series, this film looks to be as action-packed and unbelievable on the eyes as any final showdown should be. In a world of bioweapons, a zombie apocalypse and sci-fi action horror, this will be one for fans of the brand and anyone who enjoys a good explosion mixed with zombie dragons and a bad-ass heroine to match. Resident Evil: The Final Chapter will premiere on January 27.  If you wind your minds back to 2014 and the release of Warner Bros' The LEGO Movie, the first thing that will surely come to the forefront of your memories will be the film's 'Everything is awesome' theme song that everyone sung. All. The. Time. It's now almost 3 years down the track and children everywhere are about to be jumping with joy as LEGO Batman takes to the big screen and tries to balance being the superhero Gotham City needs with the responsibilities of being a parent. The LEGO Batman Movie serves up humour based on cheeky laughs for the little ones and subtle double entendres for parents and will get you hooked right from the beginning. The flick will be released on February 10.  The mutants are gone, life has moved on and one familiar X-Man remains behind. Logan. Whenever you think of Wolverine, there's only one super-muscly Aussie that comes to mind -- Hugh Jackman. This blockbuster is sure to be a hit among the cult fans of the X-Men saga and focuses on life post-mutant war where an aging Wolverine and Professor X are faced with the challenge of protecting a young female clone of Logan himself. The film has got all of the action from the previous films in a world much simpler than that of the X-Men and looks to be a flick you won't want to miss come its release on March 3.  If huge, violent animals, a mysterious uncharted island and a lot of CGI in films is your thing, then Kong: Skull Island will be the flick for you. The movie focuses on monster thriller-legend King Kong and an A-list cast of explorers featuring the likes of Samuel L. Jackson, Tom Hiddleston, John Goodman and John C. Reilly who attempt to uncover the origins of the beast and the island itself. Safe to say, absolute chaos ensues. Kong: Skull Island will hit cinemas on March 10.  Kids love them. Adults love them. Everyone loves them. The Minions are back in 2017. Along with their crime-kicking, Steve Carell-voiced partner Gru, the Minions feature in this lovable next installment of the Despicable Me series against funky foe Balthazar Bratt, who looks to take over the world and is voiced by Trey Parker. This will definitely not be one to miss, so round the kids up and head to the cinemas from June 30 for a bucket-load of laughs.  Welcome back to the shiny, new-age, futuristic wonder world that is Bladerunner 2049. 35 years on from the original cult thriller, this flick is sure to be just as awesome as a new Bladerunner in Ryan Gosling looks to find previous hero Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) to pursue a long-hidden secret and stop society tearing itself to pieces. If you've never seen the magic that is the first film, now is the perfect opportunity to catch up before the October 6 release date for the sequel and dive into the world of neo-noir, sci-fi replicants.  It's almost impossible to talk about films coming in 2017 without hearing about Star Wars: Episode VIII. With the release of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story this year and the sad and unexpected death of actress Carrie Fisher, all eyes will be glued to the big screen once this blockbuster is released on December 15. The film will continue to follow the adventures of Rey, Finn, Poe and Luke Skywalker, with Carrie Fisher already confirmed as having a larger role. While no trailer has dropped just yet, the next installment in the Star Wars saga is set to be huge and will definitely be one to watch for film of the year, come 2017.