Members of Umkhonto We Sizwe Military Veterans Association are calling for a review of the African National Congress (ANC) Constitution in a bid to put an end to some of the challenges that face the organisation. The veterans made the announcement during a press briefing held on Monday in Johannesburg. "Council resolved to call for a review of the ANC constitution and to remain faithful to the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa," General Siphiwe Nyanda said. Nyanda, however, declined to outline the extracts that they wanted to challenge in the constitution until they met with the leadership of the ANC. He further indicated that the resolutions of the conference would only be made public once the party had time to discuss them. "We are not giving those resolutions to the media because we are disciplined members of the ANC, despite what you might have heard. We are going to forward these resolutions to the ANC because it's our organisation," he said. Thabang Makwetla elaborated a bit further on the issue, saying that members of the ANC agreed that the organisation had weaknesses that needed to be addressed. "Those weaknesses speak to, among other things, practices which allow for the abuse of members and the abuse of processes within the organisation. A discussion must be entertained to say in what way can the constitution with respect to procedures and structures be reviewed in a way that closes loopholes, gaps within the management of the organisation," he said. Makwetla said there should be an appreciation of the fact that the ANC could benefit from the introduction of other bodies and structures within its constitution which will assist the better management of the organisation in order to obviate the weaknesses that exist. "It is one of the big areas of work that must be done before the conference," said Makwetla. The organisation held a conference at the weekend in Soweto with over 2,000 members attending. Those in attendance included former MKMVA members coupled with members of the national executive committee and veterans of the ANC. Among the resolutions taken was to work towards the unity of the ANC and to fight against factionalism, to work for the unity of all members of Umkhonto WeSizwe, to utilise all avenues to improve the welfare of military veterans and to fight against corruption in all its manifestations across government and the ANC.