South African banks would have been hit hard had the minister of finance intervened in the banks' decision to stop providing the Guptas with banking services. That is the contention of Yasmin Masithela, Absa Bank's head of compliance, in an affidavit lodged at the high court in Pretoria. Absa is a respondent in the application by Pravin Gordhan, Minister of Finance, for a declaratory order that he does not have the power to intervene in disputes between banks and private clients. [FREE] It's high noon for the #Guptas as Gordhan has made 72 transactions public and dirty laundry could be aired. https://t.co/6wPdUzcSRt  Masithela tells the court Absa is "deeply concerned" by the Guptas' Oakbay companies' efforts to persuade the minister to intervene. "Absa contends that these were attempts to persuade the minister to act unlawfully by intervening in private banking relationships. If the minister acceded to these requests the consequences would have been significant," she says. The biggest of these consequences would have been: Absa contends it supports the minister seeking a court order and argues even though there already are sufficient grounds, an order will bring certainty and clarity "whether public functionaries are entitled to intervene in the relationship between banks and their clients". Masithela, damningly, attaches letters that confirm the Guptas declined to challenge Absa's decision "after taking legal advice".  She also adds that members of the leadership of the African National Congress (ANC) approached Maria Ramos, Absa's chief executive, "to explain the regulatory environment". The ANC was concerned there may have been collusion between the four banks. During the meeting, attended by Gwede Mantashe, secretary general, and Enoch Godongwana, chairperson of the ANC's economic transformation committee, Ramos indicated that should there be fears about collusion the ANC was welcome to lodge complaints with the banking regulator. Besides Absa, Standard Bank, FNB and Nedbank have lodged replying affadavits to the high court.