For a change of pace in what can be a frantic holiday season, trade a night out on the town for a night in at the theatre. To help you find just the right stage experience for you and yours over the next few weeks, we've done a roundup of what's on offer. CAPE TOWN The Fugard Theatre District Six - Kanala District Six was a multi-cultural neighbourhood and community in Cape Town that was declared a "whites only" area in 1966 under the apartheid-era Group Areas Act. "District Six - Kanala" was created by David Kramer to commemorate the heart of the community and has been on at the historic Fugard Theatre for five months. The musical celebrates the vibrant culture that was part of 1960s District Six and pays homage to the characters and places that beat at the heart of the city. Bad Jews Presented by Eric Abraham and the Fugard Theatre, the West End hit "Bad Jews" sees a family caught in the tug-of-war between faith, heritage and how each plays itself out in a modern world. Devoutly Jewish Daphna comes up against her secular cousin Liam in a battle over a family heirloom. The story plays out over one night in an apartment in Manhattan and deals with difficult topics with sharp wit and poignant humour. The Baxter Theatre Kaapse Jol One of Cape Town's best composers and choreographers Alistair Izobell leads a cast in his latest production, "Kaapse Jol", as they celebrate the music, history and places of the Mother City. From the indigenous sounds of the Khoi people to the influences of the Malay and Dutch, Izobell pulls together the rich history of the Cape in an elaborate tapestry of unique Cape Town sound. Fortyfied Comedian Nik Rabinowitz has turned 40 and invites you to explore his impending midlife crisis with him. But with 40 being the new 30 and the recent birth of his third child, he's a little caught up at the moment - so the midlife crisis is going to have to wait, Rabinowitz's latest one-man comedy show is sure to offer the usual barrel of laughs.. Whistle Stop 'Tis the season for love and goodwill and "Whistle Stop" - on for a short season until January 7 - promises to tap right into that. If you've found, lost or just basked in the glow of love, this is perfect lighthearted summer entertainment as you enjoy a man, a woman, a bench and all the hidden thoughts about love that occupy a wandering mind. Artscape Annie In one of the world's favourite family musicals, set in 1930s New York, Annie escapes her life of misery at Miss Hannigan's orphanage to spend Christmas with billionaire Oliver Warbucks. The South African cast takes on some of the most classic roles in theatre and sings their way through Annie's bold plan to search for her birth parents - and Miss Hannigan's plan to spoil her search. Peter Pan - Ballet Peter Pan is a mischievous boy who never ages and spends his never-ending childhood on the island of Neverland as the leader of The Lost Boys. In this ballet, join Peter Pan and his fairy friend Tinkerbell as they adventure with mermaids, fairies, pirates and even ordinary children from the world outside Neverland. JOHANNESBURG The Market Theatre The House Of Truth "The House of Truth" is a bio-play of the life of South African writer Can Themba. It premiered at the 2016 National Arts Festival and tells the story behind the stories that Themba wrote, his complex life and his struggle to be recognised as a qualified teacher by the Transvaal Department of Education. Eventually Themba started working as a journalist and worked his way up to the position of assistant editor at Drum magazine, though without any pay. His home, the House of Truth, was a single-roomed flat in Sophiatown in the 1950s and was his refuge - the place where he could share his frustrations with those who came to share the space with him. When Swallows Cry From migrants to refugees, the movement of people across international borders has become a big theme in world politics and with each person comes a unique story of anxiety and hope. "When Swallows Cry" is a work by Mike van Graan and is produced as a trilogy of playlets that explores global mobility in a contemporary world, with a particular focus on African perspectives. The Market Theatre is the first theatre to produce one of the products of this project. Monte Casino The Great Moscow Circus Featuring more than 65 circus acts, including the best from both Russia and the international circus world, the Great Moscow Circus brings with it every possible circus highlight, from funniest clowns to the most daring acrobats, daredevils, aerial artists, balancers, showgirls and more – all supported by a live circus band and under the 1,700 all-chair seating, air-conditioned Great Moscow Circus Big Top tent.