In these prime summer days, clothes can often seem like a cruel, sweaty burden. An unnecessary layer holding you back from your true potential. If only you could rip the itchy fabric from your flesh and dance free like the nature baby you were born to be! Then you'd be free, you'd be au natural, you'd be ... probably, pretty inappropriate and awkward, but awesomely so. Art history contains a long tradition of people getting naked at the most unlikely of times. At a picnic, chilling with friends, fighting a dragon, kissing your dog by the seashore -- there is literally no time too improper for these painted subjects to strip down and strike a pose. In honor of summer and nudity and art, behold 21 times (including the painting above) people in paintings got naked at really weird times. Not. Suitable. For. Work. This is one of those dreams when you're suddenly naked and surrounded by wild cats. "Can you pass the butt? The butter. I meant butter." Amanda thinks you should make a painting. It will last longer. "Are you gonna smile for this one?" "No. Are you gonna wear clothes?" "No." When you show up at a party wearing the same thing. Carol brought the fruit platter, guys. "So awkward you had to rescue me like this." "Wait, you mean I'm naked too?" Laura has definitely arrived. TFW you realize every body is a beach body. Lindsey and her dog do everything together. There's nothing like getting your coiffure done in the nude. "Same." Venus doesn't need your ugly pink blanket, Tiffany. This jacket came a size too small, but Helene DGAF. "Do these shoes go with my labia?" Gorilla's like, what? Come on, we've all seen "Game of Thrones." "Roger, ughhhh, we were just talking." If you're not staring at the giant predatory bird in the background of this painting, you're doing something wrong. Every so often, HuffPost Arts & Culture attempts to bring to light a few forgotten gems with our light-hearted look back at art history. For past examples see here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here and here. Share this slide: